Adding content from voximplant (#93)
fixie-ai/ultradox: integrations/voximplant.mdx

---
title: 'Voximplant'
description: 'Connecting Ultravox to SIP Using Voximplant'
---

<Note>
Voximplant provides a platform for telephony and has created a native integration with Ultravox to enable SIP calling. This content has been provided courtesy of Voximplant.
</Note>
## Connecting to SIP PBX server with Voximplant

With Voximplant, you can connect Ultravox Realtime to an existing SIP telephony server. This allows you to use Ultravox AI assistants to handle your calls and assist your customers right from your existing infrastructure.

> Voximplant acts as a gateway, managing connection with Ultravox via WebSockets and making/receiving calls via SIP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Voximplant acts as a gateway, managing connections with Ultravox via WebSockets and making/receiving calls via SIP.
```

![Gateway]()

Follow the steps below to connect Ultravox to your SIP PBX server.

### Step 1: Create a Voximplant Application
To create an application, [log in to your Voximplant account](https://manage.voximplant.com/?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=applications&utm_campaign=gettingstarted) or create a new one. Then, navigate to the [application section](https://manage.voximplant.com/applications?utm_source=docs&utm_medium=applications&utm_campaign=gettingstarted) from the upper left corner of the page. Click **New application** in the upper right corner or **Create** at the bottom of the page.

![Create an application](gettingstarted-basicconcepts-applications-create.png)

This opens a new application editor window where you can set it up and save by clicking **Create**. The newly created app appears in the application list. To modify its name, icon, or description, click the three dots menu and select **Edit**.

![Edit an application](gettingstarted-basicconcepts-applications-dots.png)

> You can learn more about Voximplant applications and their sections in the [Getting started → Applications](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications) section of this documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about Voximplant applications and their sections in the [Getting started → Applications](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications) section of their documentation.
```

### Step 2: Create Scenarios Within the Application
Scenarios in Voximplant are JavaScript documents within a Voximplant application, where you can implement logic processing calls and messages.

> To create a scenario, open your existing or newly created [application](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications), and select **Scenarios** on the left menu, and click on the plus icon to create a new scenario. Give it a name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a scenario, open your existing or newly created [application](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications), select **Scenarios** on the left menu, and click on the plus icon to create a new scenario. Give it a name.
```

![Create a scenario](gettingstarted-basicconcepts-scenarios-create.png)

This opens a new tab in the online IDE on the right, where you can write your code. If needed, you can rename the scenario or modify the source code later.

> You can learn more about scenarios and their best practice tips in the [Getting started → Scenarios](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/scenarios) section of this documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about scenarios and their best practice tips in the [Getting started → Scenarios](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/scenarios) section of the Voximplant documentation.
```

### Step 3: Utilize Ready-to-use Scenarios

> To connect your SIP PBX with the Ultravox LLM, we prepared two ready-to use scenarios for incoming and outgoing calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect your SIP PBX with Ultravox, Voximplant prepared two ready-to use scenarios for incoming and outgoing calls.
```

    pathParameters: PATH_PARAMETERS, // Change for agent call
    queryParameters: QUERY_PARAMETERS,
    body: BODY_CREATE_CALL, // Change for agent call
    onWebSocketClose,
  };

  try {
    webSocketAPIClient = await Ultravox.createWebSocketAPIClient(webSocketAPIClientParameters);
    VoxEngine.sendMediaBetween(call, webSocketAPIClient);

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Unknown, (event) => {
      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Unknown===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.HTTPResponse, (event) => {
      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.HTTPResponse===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.State, (event) => {
      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.State===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Transcript, (event) => {
      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Transcript===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

>     webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.ClientToolInvocation, (event) => {

Reviewer: (Note to self for Voximplant) It'd be really slick if the Voximplant let you register client tool implementations in a similar way to [our JS SDK](https://github.com/fixie-ai/ultravox-client-sdk-js/blob/e200db8dbc9faa765ba62fa286b53aa48cec6648/src/index.ts#L197)

      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.ClientToolInvocation===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Debug, (event) => {
      Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Debug===');
      Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
    });

>     webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.PlaybackClearBuffer, (event) => {

Reviewer: (Note to self for Voximplant) This would ideally be handled directly by Voximplant since there's exactly one correct implementation and it requires altering audio buffers.

        });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Debug, (event) => {
          Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.Debug===');
          Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
        });

    webSocketAPIClient.addEventListener(Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.PlaybackClearBuffer, (event) => {
          Logger.write('===Ultravox.WebSocketAPIEvents.PlaybackClearBuffer===');
          Logger.write(JSON.stringify(event));
        });

    const inputTextMessageContent = {
          type: 'input_text_message',
          text: 'HI!',
        };
        webSocketAPIClient.inputTextMessage(inputTextMessageContent);
      } catch (error) {
        Logger.write('===SOMETHING_WENT_WRONG===');
        Logger.write(error);
        VoxEngine.terminate();
      }
    });
});
```

The outgoing scenario accepts the `customData` parameter in the following format:

```js
{"callerid":"16503333333", "number":"16504444444"}
```

You can provide this parameter when launching the scenario via a **routing rule** or [StartScenarios](https://voximplant.com/docs/references/httpapi/scenarios#startscenarios) Management API method.

### Step 4: Create Routing Rules

> Routing rules in a Voximplant applications define when and on what conditions to launch existing scenarios. When an incoming call arrives or you make call via your SIP PBX server, a routing rule decides which scenario to launch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing rules in a Voximplant application define when and how to launch existing scenarios. When an incoming call arrives or you make call via your SIP PBX server, a routing rule decides which scenario to launch.
```

The **Pattern** field checks if the call’s destination (the dialed number or username specified in the `e.destination` property of the incoming call) matches any rule’s pattern. If the call’s destination aligns with the pattern, the attached scenario(s) are executed. If the call’s destination doesn’t match the pattern, the attached scenario(s) remain inactive, and the call proceeds to the next routing rule.

The application systematically evaluates the routing rules from top to bottom, with higher-priority rules taking precedence. When the call’s destination matches one of the rules, the rule is executed, and the application disregards any subsequent rules, ensuring that only one rule is executed at a time.

<Info>
**Note**: If the destination phone number meets several rules' patterns, only **the first rule** executes.
</Info>

The **Pattern** field employs regular expressions to create masks for phone numbers or usernames. Common expressions include:

- `.*` means any quantity of any symbols, so all the numbers or usernames match the rule.
- `+?[1-9]\d{1,14}` matches any phone number

> - `123.+` matches 1234, 12356, etc., and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `123.+` matches 1234, 12356, and so on.
```

For more information on building regular expressions, refer to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The **Available scenarios** dropdown list enables you to attach one or more scenarios to execute when the rule is triggered.

> You can attach **multiple scenarios** to a single rule. In this scenario, the rule executes all the attached scenarios sequentially within a single context, promoting code reuse. This allows you to encapsulate all the functions within a scenario and utilize them in another scenario.

Reviewer: This seems like a good way to remove all the duplication between the incoming and outgoing call scenarios above, but it's not obvious to me how that would work.  Assuming that's the most common use case for this integration, it'd be great for the examples to reflect the best practice here.  (Presumably need help from Voximplant to define those best practices of course.)

You can view all the attached scenarios in the **Assigned scenarios** field.

After specifying all the settings, click the **Create rule** button to create a rule.

> You can learn more about routing rules and ways to launch them in the [Getting started → Routing rules](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications) section of this documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about routing rules and ways to launch them in the [Getting started → Routing rules](https://voximplant.com/docs/getting-started/basic-concepts/applications) section of the Voximplant documentation.
```

### Step 5: Setup Your SIP PBX Server
Voximplant handles the incoming calls, launching the `incoming` scenario automatically via a specified routing rule and its pattern.

> To handle the **outgoing** calls, you can either configure the outgoing routing rule to a specific pattern according to your existing SIP system, passing the number to call and the caller ID to the routing rule (see the [Utilize our ready-to-use scenarios](#step-3-utilize-ready-to-use-scenarios) section above).
> 
> Or you can manually launch the `outbound` scenario calling the [StartScenarios](https://voximplant.com/docs/references/httpapi/scenarios#startscenarios) Management API method from your system and passing the number and caller ID parameters as it is explained above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle the **outgoing** calls, you can either:

* Configure the outgoing routing rule to a specific pattern according to your existing SIP system, passing the number to call and the caller ID to the routing rule (see the [Utilize our ready-to-use scenarios](#step-3-utilize-ready-to-use-scenarios) section above).
* Or manually launch the `outbound` scenario calling the [StartScenarios](https://voximplant.com/docs/references/httpapi/scenarios#startscenarios) Management API method from your system and passing the number and caller ID parameters as explained above.
```
